---
layout: post
title: May 2025 Goals
date: '2025-05-01'
categories: Monthly_Goals
tags: Goals
---

May 2025 goals and daily notebook entries.

## Goals  

### Writing and manuscripts 

1. Dissertation edits - check w Hollie
	- For AST chapter, shorten discussion to focus on nutrient implications for miRNA discussion 
2. AST manuscript writing - polishing for publication, maybe submit to JEB? 
3. Mcap 2023 manuscript writing - methods and results 
4. CBASS - stats results 

### Sample processing

1. Train Flo re molecular work
2. e5 lipid/metabolite protein assays 
3. Anything else lab needs 

### Data analysis

1. AST 2021
	- phys univariate statistics. Remove Feb to see if this impacts stats at all
	- DESeq2 + GO enrichment for ambient Feb, June, and August to tell seasonal story of gene expression.
	- Exclude Feb time point and only include molecular for June + August amb and heat and run PERMANOVA. This will tell us if we care about treatment, time, or the interaction at all when looking at summer time points.
	- Do DESeq2 + GO enrichment for June + August amb and heat (exclude Feb)
	- mRNA-miRNA interactions - predicting interactions with miranda and correlations. network changes between june and aug amb v heat. short term network changes between june and august and long term network changes between feb, june, aug --> see how we can compare these statistically. look at papers that have done this stuff before and look at their stats
2. Mcap 2023 
	- clarification of polyadenlation - polyA v ribofree MZT and ZGA
	- subsetting genes of interest in Ayers et al. 2023
	- look at polyAD and polyA in relation to miRNAs
	- Process miRNA data once its back from Azenta 
3. e5 deep dive - check w Kathleen 
4. e5 molecular mechanisms - check w Kathleen 


### Field work / travel 

1. Help Zoe with her experiment 
2. Epimar? 

## Daily log   

### 20250501

- Accepted Upenn job! 
- Looking at AST 2021 phys with Feb removed 
- BES symposium

### 20250502 

- Nothing 

### 20250503

- Nothing 

### 20250504

- Nothing 

### 20250505 

- AST DEGs June and August amb v heat 
- AST WGCNA for mRNAs and miRNAs 
- AST correlation of mRNA and miRNA module eigengenes 
- AST correlation of mRNA and miRNA by Condition 

### 20250506

- Shipping stuff to Ariana 
- Moving stuff from Andromeda to Unity via Globus 
- AST correlation of mRNA and miRNA by Condition 

### 20250507

- Helped Zoe with experiment setup 
- CBASS meeting 

### 20250508

- Helped Flo with extractions 
- Apul miRNA-lncRNA PCCs + plots 
- Katie meeting 

### 20250509 

- e5 meeting 

### 20250510

- Nothing 

### 20250511

- Nothing 

### 20250512

- Lab meeting 
- Helped Zoe 
- Wrote down Barott lab project ideas  

### 20250513

- Coding for AST - looking at correlations between conditions 


I can delete:

- Apul_Genome
- BIO594_FinalProject 
- biomin_blast
- Francois_data
- OrthoFinder
- oyster_ceabigr
- Oys_Nutrient


to do 

- post for reefbites
- moving files to OSF and/or unity



Notes 

- GSA for maldives